---
sidebar_position: 2
---
# Getting Started

From the root of your Go module, run:
```
go get github.com/harshadmanglani/polaris@v1.0.0
```

## An overview

Polaris helps you create, store and run workflows. 

You don't need to worry about:
- Feeding the sequence of steps (it will figure out which the sequence along with the ones that can run concurrently)
- Explicitly pausing workflows (when it runs out of new data to move the workflow ahead, it pauses)

### Workflow

A specification and container for a topology of connected builders that generate a final data. It has the following meta:
    * **Name** - Name of the workflow.
    * **Target Data** - The name of the data being generated by this data flow. Once this is produced, the workflow is complete. It can, however, be re-opened by feeding new data.

### Builder

An actor that consumes a bunch of data and produces another data. It has the following meta associated with it:
    * **Name** - Name of the builder.
    * **Consumes** - A set of data that the builder consumes.
    * **Produces** - Data that the builder produces.
    * **Optionals** - Data that the builder can optionally consume; one possible use case for this: if a builder wants to be re-run on demand with the same set of consumable data already present, add an optional data in the Builder and restart the workflow by passing an instance of the optional data in the data-delta
    * **Access** - Data that the builder will just access and has no effect on the sequence of execution of builders
    * **BuilderContext** - A wrapper to access the data given to that builder to process.

### Data

The basic container for information generated by an actor in the system.


